usually during Valentine's week
strawberries rules the roost right
everybody makes some or the other desert
or sweet using strawberries and I feel a
little bad for the other fruits today I
will be making guava cheese or paratha
which can also be made like a jelly and
so for Valentine's stay tuned so the
first step is going to be taking deer
guavas now I have these really really
ripe ones around three of them
switch on the flame and I'll add some
water just enough to cover the guavas
not a lot now this is actually two
recipes you know included in one because
halfway through what is going to happen
is this is going to turn into jam jam
consistency so what you can do is you
can remove the amount that you need to
make or you know to keep or store as Jam
and the rest you can cook it you know
further till softball constancy and then
said to make your garage you can see
that this is all nice and mushy I am
going to switch off the flame and what
I'm going to do is I am going to allow
this to cool down and then we are going
to blend it in a mixer so I have placed
the guavas in the mixer and what I am
going to do is in the meanwhile this
leftover liquid which also has a lot of
seed residue it is going to drain back
so this is ray of Sun we're gonna mix
this ensure that all the pulp is inside
and then we will discard these seeds you
can see this little bit of juice let's
blend our cook two hours
- a nice beauty let's strain the pulp so
now you can see this is how it looks
nice and smooth now before you start
making the parrot ensure that you have
your greased plate so that you don't
have to stop Midway and then go and
grease not a good idea
keep this ready if you have any other
mold you could also set it in that mold
I have already greased it keep this
aside I'm going to first add sugar and a
few drops of water and will allow this
to melt and form a sugar serum
now this is bubbling sugar has melted
and let's add the pulp
and now guys for some muscle power you
don't have to do anything now leave
everything aside and just keep stirring
and stirring and stirring till this
thickens and then comes to a soft ball
stage I'll show you how that looks you
can see this is thickened more I am
going to add some color few drops of red
color optional at this stage this is
thickened into an ice jam consistency
and what I've done is made a batch
earlier stored it and this is how it
looks looks so nice and simple no extra
flavoring just simple guavas and sugar
could add a dash of lime if you want it
use this with croizon 's and brown
breads
toast whatever but the idea is to make
barrage so let's get back to story okay
now this is in the jam consistency but
obviously you need to check at what
stage is your sugar I am just going to
take a small drop and you know what this
is setting you can see into a nice soft
ball so when you're going to cool this
overnight this is going to set like a
nice jelly or Paris I will show you how
it's going to look so guys this is ready
also you can see that this world's you
know and now what I'm going to do it I
am going to put it in our greased mode
so now I'm going to keep this to cool
overnight and next day what we are going
to do is we are going to cut it into the
side sheets so I've already made a batch
earlier and usually people cut it into
diagonal strips that the traditional way
of doing it during Christmas but guys
it's Valentine so I have used these
heart molds and this is how it looks I
haven't used a lot of coloring and you
can see that looks like jelly and if you
want nice thick pieces then ensure that
the plate or the mold that you are using
is deep enough so that you get a nice
shape in size so guys this year I hope
it's not just strawberries that you're
going to be cooking up for your loved
ones you can try using guavas instead
now you can make a jam or you can make
guava cheese out of it it's completely
up to you trust me guys this Valentine's
Day you will have a really really
fruitful day wishing everybody a nice
and lovely Valentine's Day if you like
this recipe do hit on like share and
subscribe on India Food Network until
next time bye
you